---
title: <Climate Claims: Richard Lindzen and his Thoughts on the Public Discourse over Climate Change>
layout: default
nav_order: 2
---
This Article highlights the thoughts of MIT Atmospheric Science professor, Richard Lindzen. Above all, this article aims to urge the public to make informed decisions and not surrender to the alarmist position on climate change. Lindzen first explains how climate change activists have demonized  CO2 and temperature increases in general. He does not agree that warming is necessarily bad and proof of worse to come. He also goes to say that although there seemed to be an increase in global temperature from the 70s to 90s, temperatures have remained almost constant since 1998. Climate change alarmists hide this fact by saying these past years are among the hottest years, which is true but misleading. Lindzen then describes the misleading manner with which we speak about natural disasters. There has been no increase in hurricanes, tornadoes, or droughts and even the IPCC acknowledges that these cannot be attributed to anthropogenic climate change. He goes on to say that with a warmer climate, these extreme events will likely decrease as there will be less of a temperature difference between the tropics and higher latitudes. Overall, Lindzen speaks about the way that information is given to us and the alarmist methods used by the media. He argues that although CO2 levels have increased, global temperatures are more affected by the natural fluctuations that have occurred for millions of years rather than human activity. He explains that the warming will not result in catastrophe and that climate change activists ignore facts that do not fit their assumptions in order to push their alarmist agenda. They may not blatantly lie but the statistics, media coverage, and language used to convey their messages are very biased (Lindzen, 2017).

The article by Lindzen is of particular interest because of the calm and relatable tone Lindzen takes. He wants you to come up with your own conclusions about climate change and think for yourself. It is easier to oppose the claims that we are quickly entering a state of catastrophe when you do not necessarily see signs of destruction everyday. We do not want climate change to be a large issue so we are more content choosing to believe that it is not a problem. 

Although Linzen was once a lead scientist on the UN’s panel examining man-made global warming, most climate change scientists do not consider him or his published articles to be credible. His article, Thoughts on the Public Discourse over Climate Change, has appeared in a variety of websites but the majority of scientists do not see validity in his claims. NASA is commonly considered to be a credible source for climate science and many of the articles here provide information that drastically conflicts Linzen’s beliefs. NASA states the probability that the current warming trend is caused by humans is over 95%. It also states that this warming is in fact steadily increasing at an alarming rate (Shaftel, 2020). In terms of natural disasters, the IPCC says that as global temperatures increase, some regions will see improvements and some will see harmful effects. Taken as a whole, the harms outweigh the benefits and although there may not be an increase in natural disasters, the events will be worse. Droughts will be more intense and long lasting, hurricanes will become stronger and precipitation will be heavier (Watts, 2018). Finally, the idea that we need not take an alarmist position is denounced by National Geographic. We may not know anything for certain but the probability of imminent global catastrophe is concerning enough to encourage people to act now. The cascading effects of human caused climate change will lead to our own destruction as food and water shortages emerge with increased flooding and droughts on agricultural land. These articles counter the claims of Linzen and are backed by groups of reputable scientists (Kowalski, 2018). 
